--- **File: Page 2.jpg** **Linux Short Notes** **A History of LINUX** - Linux came from a Unix family, developed by Linus Torvalds in September 1991. - In 1991, Linus Torvalds was a student at the University of Helsinki, Finland, USA. - He developed the first code of Linux 0.01 and posted it on the Minix newsgroup on Sep 17, 1991. - Today, Linux is one of the most popular operating systems, with 90% of the top 500 fastest Supercomputers running Linux variants. **Linux File System Hierarchy** - In Linux, everything is represented as a file. - The root directory, represented by "/", is the top-level directory in Linux. --- **File: Page 4.jpg** **For Variable Files** - Variable data files like log files are located in the /var directory. - This includes /var/log for system log files, /var/lib for database and package files, /var/mail for emails, and /var/tmp for temporary files needed for reboot. **Mount Directory** - The /mnt directory is used to temporarily mount file systems. **Removable Media Devices** - The /media directory contains subdirectories where removable media devices inserted into the computer are mounted. **User Binaries (usr)** - The /usr directory contains applications and files used by users, as opposed to system files. **Configuration Files (etc)** - The /etc directory contains all configuration files of the server, controlling the behavior of the operating system or application. --- **File: Page 3.jpg** **Regular Expressions** - Regular expressions are special characters used to search data and match complex patterns. **GREP (Global Regular Expression Print)** - The grep filter searches a file for a particular pattern of characters and displays all lines that contain that pattern. --- **File: Page 5.jpg** **Boot Loader Files (/boot)** - The /boot directory contains files needed to boot the system, including the GRUB boot loader's files and Linux kernels. **Optional Applications (/opt)** - The /opt directory is used for installing application software from third-party vendors not included in the Linux distribution. **Home Directory (/home)** - It contains secondary users' home directories. **Temporary Files (/tmp)** - The /tmp directory contains temporary files created by the system and users, which are deleted when the system reboots. --- **File: Page 6.jpg** **Basic Commands** - `pwd`: Shows the present working directory. - `ls`: Lists available files and directories in the current directory. - `uname`: Shows the name and version of the kernel (OS). - `cd`: Changes the directory. - `clear`: Clears the screen. - `whoami`: Displays the currently logged-in username. - `history`: Shows a list of previously used commands. - `date`: Shows the date and time. **Create, Copy, Remove, and Move Files/Directories** - `touch`: Creates an empty file. - `cp`: Copies files or directories. - `rm`: Removes files or directories. - `mv`: Moves or renames files or directories. --- **File: Page 7.jpg** **File Creation with Touch** - `touch` is used to create empty files. **File Copying with CP** - `cp` is used to copy files and directories. --- **File: Page 8.jpg** **User Management** - To create a user account: `useradd <username>`. - To set a password for a user account: `passwd <username>`. - To delete a user account: `userdel <username>`. **For Copy, Move, and Delete Files/Directories** - `cp`: Copy files or directories. - `mv`: Move or rename files or directories. - `rm`: Delete files or directories. --- **File: Page 9.jpg** **Checking User Account Properties** - To check user account properties: `grep <username> /etc/passwd`. **Adding User Account Password** - To add a user account password: `passwd <username>`. **Switching User Accounts** - To switch user accounts: `su <username>`. --- **File: Page 10.jpg** **Group Management** - A group is a collection of user accounts used for managing and applying permissions. **For Adding a Group Account** - `groupadd <groupname>`. **For Checking Group Account Properties** - `grep <groupname> /etc/group`. **For Checking Group Admin Properties** - `grep <groupname> /etc/gshadow`. **For Deleting Group Accounts** - `groupdel <groupname>`. **For Adding Single or Multiple Members to a Group** - `gpasswd -a <usernames> <groupname>`. --- **File: Page 11.jpg** **File Permission in Details** - File permissions include basic permissions, special permissions, and Access Control List (ACL) permissions. **For Checking File Permissions** - `ls -l <filename>`. **For Checking Directory Permissions** - `ls -ld <directoryname>`. --- **File: Page 12.jpg** **Change Permissions** - To change permissions, use `chmod`. **Add Read Permission to Owner** - `chmod u+r <filename>`. **Add Read/Write Permission to Group** - `chmod g+rw <filename>`. **Remove Read Permission from Others** - `chmod o-r <filename>`. --- **File: Page 13.jpg** **Change Ownerships** - To change ownership, use `chown`. **Change Owner of a File** - `chown <username> <filename>`. **Change Group Ownership of a File** - `chgrp <groupname> <filename>`. --- **File: Page 14.jpg** **Access Control List (ACL)** - ACL provides an additional, more flexible permission mechanism for file systems. **For Checking ACL Permission** - `getfacl <name of file or directory>`. **For Adding ACL Permission to User** - `setfacl -m u:<username>:<permissions> <file or directory>`. **For Removing ACL Permission of User** - `setfacl -x u:<username> <file or directory>`. **For Removing All ACL Permissions** - `setfacl -b <file or directory>`. --- **File: Page 15.jpg** **Search a Word in a File (grep)** - To search for a word (string) in a file: `grep <word> <file>`. **Search a String in Multiple Files** - To search a string in multiple files: `grep <string> <file1> <file2>`. **Search a String Insensitively in a File** - To search a string case-insensitively in a file: `grep -i <string> <file>`. **Search a String in All Files Recursively** - To search a string in all files recursively: `grep -r <string> /`. --- **File: Page 16.jpg** **Displaying String Matches** - To invert the string match: `grep -v <string> <file>`. - To display the string match with line numbers: `grep -n <string> <file>`. **Display ing Matching Count** - To display the matching count of a string: `grep -c <string> <file>`. **Find Files Containing a String** - To find files containing a string: `grep -l <string> <file1> <file2>`. - To display the file names that do not contain the string: `grep -L <string> <file1> <file2>`. --- **File: Page 17.jpg** **Display Lines Starting/Ending with a String** - To display lines that start with a string: `grep "^<string>" <file>`. - To display lines that end with a string: `grep "<string>$" <file>`. **Search and Redirect Output to a New File** - To search and redirect output to a new file: `grep <string> <file> > <newfile>`. --- **File: Page 18.jpg** **Find Files with Permissions** - To find files with certain permissions: `find / -perm <permissions>`. **Using Find Command Based on Users and Groups** - To find files owned by a specific user: `find / -user <username>`. - To find files owned by a specific group: `find / -group <groupname>`. **Find Files by Size** - To find files with a size less than 10MB: `find / -size -10M`. - To find files with a size greater than 10MB: `find / -size +10M`. --- **File: Page 19.jpg** **Job Automation** - Job automation allows tasks to be performed automatically in the operating system. **Two Types of Job Automation** 1. `at`: Executes a job only one time. 2. `crontab`: Executes a job multiple times. --- **File: Page 20.jpg** **Tar Command Syntax** - `tar` is used for archiving files. - Common options include `c` for create, `x` for extract, `v` for verbose, `f` for forcefully, `t` for test, and options for compression such as `z` for gzip, `j` for bzip2, and `J` for xz. **Examples:** - To create a tar archive: `tar cvf <archive-file> <files>`. - To extract a tar archive: `tar xvf <archive-file>`. --- **File: Page 21.jpg** **Manage IP Configuration** - Use `nmcli` to manage networking settings. **Display Network Connections** - To show all network connections: `nmcli con show`. **Display Active Connections** - To show active connections: `nmcli con show --active`. **Create a New Connection** - To create a new connection: `nmcli con add con-name "<connection-name>" ifname <interface-name> type ethernet address <ip-address>/24 gw4 <gateway> ipv4.dns <dns-server> connection.autoconnect yes ip4.method manual`. **Modify a Connection** - To modify a connection: `nmcli con mod "<connection-name>" ipv4.add <ip-address>`. **Deactivate and Activate a Connection** - To deactivate a connection: `nmcli con down "<connection-name>"`. - To activate a connection: `nmcli con up "<connection-name>"`. --- **File: Page 22.jpg** **To Set a Job with `at` Command** - Use `at` to schedule a one-time job. **To Show Pending Jobs** - Use `atq` to show pending jobs. **To Remove a Job** - Use `atrm <job-id>` to remove a job. **To Start `crond` Service** - To start the cron daemon: `systemctl start crond`. **To Enable `crond` Service (Permanent On)** - To enable the cron daemon at startup: `systemctl enable crond`. **For Setting Cron Jobs** - Use `crontab -e` to set cron jobs. --- **File: Page 23.jpg** **To Activate a New Connection** - Use `nmcli con up "<connection-name>"` to activate a new connection. **To Deactivate a Connection** - Use `nmcli con down "<connection-name>"` to deactivate a connection. **To Start a New Connection and Stop the Old Connection** - Modify the connection properties with `nmcli` to achieve this. **To Remove Existing Connections** - Use `nmcli con delete "<connection-name>"` to remove an existing connection. **To Set Hostname** - Use `hostnamectl set-hostname <hostname>` to set the hostname. **To Show Hostname** - Use `hostname` to display the hostname. --- **File: Page 24.jpg** **Sudo Command** - `sudo` allows a user with proper permissions to execute a command as another user, such as the superuser. **Provide Sudo Privileges to the User** - Edit the `/etc/sudoers` file to grant privileges. **Provide Sudo Privileges to the Group** - Edit the `/etc/sudoers` file to grant privileges to a group. **Wheel Group** - The Wheel group has sudo privileges by default. --- **File: Page 25.jpg** **Managing Networking Based on Red Hat Enterprise Linux** - Configure networking using Network Manager (`nmcli`). **Show IP Address** - To show the IP address: `nmcli con show`. **Configure Networking with NMTUI** - Network Manager is a daemon that manages network settings. - Use `nmtui` for configuring networking. --- **File: Page 26.jpg** **Sudo Command Syntax** - `sudo` allows a user to execute a command as another user, as specified in the `/etc/sudoers` file. **Providing Sudo Privileges** - Edit the `/etc/sudoers` file to provide sudo privileges to users or groups. **Wheel Group** - The Wheel group has sudo privileges by default. --- **File: Page 27.jpg** **Cron Jobs** - Cron jobs are used to schedule tasks in Linux. **Displaying Cron Jobs of the Current User** - To show cron jobs of the current user: `crontab -l`. **Removing Cron Jobs** - Use `crontab -e` to edit the cron jobs, or manually remove them from the crontab file. **Setting Cron Jobs for Other Users** - To set cron jobs for other users: `crontab -u <username> -e`. **Restricting Users from `crond` Service** - Edit the `/etc/cron.deny` file to restrict users from using `crond`. --- **File: Page 28.jpg** **IP Address Configuration Files** - All created network connections are stored in `/etc/NetworkManager/system-connections/`. **Note** - Modifying connection files directly is not recommended. - Restart the NetworkManager service after making changes: `systemctl restart NetworkManager`. ---"
