**VIRTUALISATIOM**
- Virtualisation is the technique of aplitting or adding a physical resource into as many logical resources as we can. Example- CPU, memory,etc.
- It is a technology that transforms hardware into software.

**HYPERVISOR**
  It is a piece of software or firmware that creates and runs VMs. A hypervisor is also known as Virtual Machine Manager (VMM).

**TYPES OF HYPERVISORS**

  **1. Type-1/Bare Metal/Native Hypervisor**
- It is used by Enterprises.
- It is also called Bare Metal Hypervisor because it is the first thing to get installed in a newly purchased hardware.
- It runs directly on the hardware and acts like a firmware.
- A guest OS runs on a level above the hypervisor and acts like an OS.
- It virtualises the hardware.
- Guest OS and applications run on the hypervisor.
- It has better scalability.
- Has direct access to hardware along with the VM it hosts.
- Higher performance ad there is no middle layer.
- More secure than type-2.
- Eg:- Esxi by VMware, HyperV by Microsoft, Xenserver by Citrix

  **2. Type-2/Hosted Hypervisor**
- It is used for learning and testing.
- Runs with in a conventional OS environment.
- Does not have direct access to the host hardware and resources.
- It virtualises the OS.
- Runs as an application on the host OS.
- Not much scalable due to it's reliance on the underlying OS.
- Isn't allowed to directly access the host hardware and its resources.
- Has comparatively a lower performance as it runs with extra overheads.
- It is less secure as any problem in the base OS impacts the entire VMware ecosystem.
- Eg:- VMware workstation, Oracle Virtual Box, MS Virtual PC.
 
**VMware Vsphere**
VMware Vsphere is the brand name for VMwar suite of virtualisation products. Previously, it was knows as VMware Infrastructure.

**Components of Vsphere**
1. VMwarre Exsi
2. Vcenter Client- It is an interface(GUI) used to connect remotely to an ESX/ESXi host from Windows PC. This client can be used to access and manage VMs on the ESXi host. It also performs other management and configuration tasks.
3. Vcentre Server- It is a centralised management tool. Multiple ESXi hosts and VMs can be managed from a single console.

[!NOTE] 
- Vsphere client can access one VM at a time. Whereas, Vcentre Server helps in accessing multiple VMs from 1 PC at the same time.
5. Vsphere web client
6. Other features-Vmotion, high availability(HA), Distributed Resource Scheduler(DRS), Fault Tolerance.

[!NOTE]
- VMware is the market leader in server virtualisation. It has 80% of the market share.
- Hyper-V is more compatible with Windows based OS but is not great for Linux.
- Xenserver is more popular in application virtualisation than server virtualisation.
