# Docker Short Notes
  
## Basics of Docker 

1. Docker was first released in March 2013. It was developed by Solomon Hykes and Sebastien Paul.
2. Docker is an open-source centralized platform designed to create, deploy and run applications.
3. Docker uses the container on the host OS to run applications. It allows applications to use the same Linux Kernel as a system on the host computer, 
rather than creating a whole virtual OS.
4. We can install Docker on any OS but the Docker engine runs natively on Linux distribution.
5. Docker is written in the 'GO' language.
6. Docker is a tool that performs OS-level virtualisation, also known as containerization.
7. Before Docker existed, at times a code would run on the developer's system but not in the user's system.
8. Docker is a set of PaaS that uses OS level virtualisation. Whereas, VMware uses hardware level virtualisation.

## Advantages of Docker

1. No pre-allocation of RAM.
2. CI Efficiency - Docker enables us to build a container image and use that same image across every step of the deployment process.
3. Less Cost.
4. It is light in weight.
5. It can run a physical hardware, virtual hardware or on cloud.  
6. We can reuse an image.
7. It takes very less time to create another container.

**Note**
- A Docker image in running state turns into a container and in stop/pause state turns back into an image.
- Windows 10 is the first Windows version on which docker can be run. However, it runs only on Windows 10 Pro and Enterprise. It is not compatible with Windows 10 Home.

## Disadvantages of Docker

1. Docker is not a good solution for application that requires a rich GUI. In such scenarios, it is recommended to use VMware.
2. It is difficult ot manage a large number of containers.
3. Docker does not provide cross-platform compatibility. Example- if an application has Windows as the host OS at the time of development, it would not run in an environment where the host OS is Linux. The OS has to be Windows.
4. Docker is suitable when the development OS and testing OS are the same. If the OS are different, we should use VMware.
5. Docker has no solution for data recovery and backup.

# Docker Ecosystem 
## Docker Daemon 

1. Docker daemon runs on the host OS.
2. It is responsible for running containers, and managing docker services.
3. Docker daemons can communicate with other daemons.

## Docker Client

1. Docker users can interact with the docker daemon/engine through a client.  This client is a CLI.
2. Docker client uses commands and Rest API to communicate with the docker daemon
3. When a client runs any server command on the docker client terminal, the client terminal sends these docker commands to the docker daemon.
4. Docker clients can communicate with more than one daemon.

## Docker Host(Hardware)

Docker Host is used for providing an environment to execute and run applications. It contains the docker daemon, images, containers, networks, and storages.

## Docker Hub/Registry
1. Docker registry manages and stores the docker images.
2. There are two types of registries in the docker:
i) Public Registry(Opensource) - It is also called Docker Hub.
ii) Private Registry - It is used to share images within an enterprise.

## Docker Images

Docker images are the read-only binary templates used to create docker containers.
OR 
Image is a single file with all dependencies and configurations required to run a program/container.

### Ways to create an image

1. Download an image from Docker Hub.
2. Create an image from a Docker File. (The developer writes down all dependencies and software requirements in the Dockerfile. When we run Dockerfile on client, docker enginer will creat an image and a container)
3. Create an image from the existing Docker Containers.

## Docker Container

1. The container holds the entire package that is needed to run the application. An image is a template and the container is a copy of that template.
2. Container is like a VM when they are run on the Docker Engine.
3. Images become containers when they run on the docker engine.

## Case Study 1: Running Ubuntu and Kali Linux in Container1 and Container2 respectively. The base OS will be RHEL.
Question. How will these containers save space?
Ans. RHEL, Ubuntu and Kali Linux have 95% Unix coding. Only say 5% is in a different language. We will be actually copying the image of this 5% size from Docker Hub into our containers. Rest of the 95% will get puled from the host OS(RHEL).

