#Type of Networks in Docker

1. ****Default Bridge Network:**
- It creates a private network on the host machine.
- Containers that are connected to the brigde network can communicate with each other using container names and hostnames. IP addresses too can  be used. 

```
docker run --network=bridge my-contaniner
```

2. **Host Network:**
- With host network mode, containers share the host's network stack, bypassing network isolation.
- Containers using the host network can access services runing on the host directly without any port mapping.
- This mode can be useful for performance-critical applications or when network isolation is not a concern.

```
docker run --network=host my-container
```

3. **Overlay Network:**
- Overlay networks are used for communication between multiple docker daemon hosts.
- This type of network allows containers running on different hosts to communicate seamlessly as if they were on the same network.
- Overlay networks use VXLAN (Virtual Extensible LAN) encapsulation to achieve network connectivity across multiple hosts.

```
docker network create --driver=overlay my-overlay-network
```
```
docker service create --network=my-overlay-network my-service
```

4. **Macvlan Network:**
- Macvlan networks allow containers to have a MAC address assigned directly to them. This allows contianers to appear as physical devices on the network, enabling them to be assigned IP addresses from the physical network's subnet.
- It is particularly useful when containers require direct Layer 2 network access or when you want to connect containers directly to external networks.

```
docker netowrk create -d macvlan --subnet=<subnet> --gateway=<gateway> -o parent=<network-interface> my-macvlan-network
```
```
docker run --network=my-macvlan-network my-container
```

5. **Custom Bridge Network:**
- It creates a private network on the host machine, allowing containers to communicate with each other using container names as hostnames.
- Containers connected to the same bridge network can reach each other via IP addresses.

```
docker network create my-bridge-network
```
```
docker run --network=my-bridge-network my-container
```

6. **None Network:**
- The none network mode disables networking for a container.
- Containers running in this mode have no network interfaces and are completely isolated from the network.
- This mode can be useful when you want to run a container in a fully isolated environment.

```
docker run --network=none my-container
```
