# Linux File System Hierarchy
- In Linux everything is represented as a file invlucing a hardware program, the files are stored in as directory, and each directoty contians a file with a tree structure which is the File System Hierarchy.
- Linux uses single rooted, inverted tree-like structure. 
- Root Directory represents with /(forward slash). It is the top-level direcotry in Linux.

1. **/**

- The base of the Linux directory is the root. This is the starting point of FSH. Every directory arises from the root directory. It is represented by a forward slash (/).
- If someone says to look into the slash directory, they refer to the root directory.

2. /**root**

- It is the home directory for the root user/superuser.

3. **/bin-> User Binaries**

- Contains binary executable.
- Common Linux commands you need to use in single-user modes are located under this directory.
- Commands used by all the users of the system are located here.

4. **/sbin-> System Binaries**

- Just like /bin, /sbin also contains binary executables.
- However, the linux commands located under this directory are used typically by system administrator, for system maintenance purpose.
- Example: iptables, reboot, fdisk, ifconfig, swapon.

5. **/dev-> Device Files**

- It contains hardware device files.
- These include terminal devices, usb or any device attached to the system.
- Example: /dev/ttyl, /dev/usbmon0

6. **/var-> Variable Files**

- The variable data files such as log files are located in the /var directory.
- File contents that tend to grow are located in this directory. These include:
  - /var/log: System log files generated by OS and other applications.
  - /var/lib: Contains database and package files.
  - /var/mail: Contains e-mails.
  - /var/tmp: Contains temporary files needed for reboot.

7. **/mnt-> Mount Directory**

- This directory is used to mount a file system temporarily.

8. **/media-> Removable Media Devices**

- The /media directory contains subdirectories where removable media devices inserted into the computer are mountd.

9. **/usr-> User Binaries****

- The /usr directory contains applications and files used by users, as opposed to applications and files used by the system.

10. **/etc-> Configuration files**

- It contains all configuration files of server.
- The core configuration files are stored in the /etc directory. It controls the behaviour of an OS or application. This directory also contains startup and shutdown program scripts that are used to start or stop individual programs.

11. **/boot-> Boot Loader Files**

- The /boot directory contains the files needed to boot the system. Example- The GRUB boot loader's files and the Linux kernels are stored here.

12. **/opt->Optional Applications**

- The opt direcotry is used for installing the application software from third-party vendors that are not available in the Linux distribution. Usually, the software code is stored in the opt directory and the binary code is linked to the bin directory so that all users can run that software.

13. **/home-> Home Directory**

- It contains secondary users home directory.

14. **/tmp->Temporary Files**

- Directory that contains temporary files created by system and users.
- Files under this directory are deleted when system is rebooted.



